# Project-3
SP500 and index volatility futures analysis

In this project I sought to do an analysis of SP 500 futures daily returns measured against VIX and VIX futures daily returns. VIX futures are a proprietary Chicago Board Options Exchange product. The VIX is a measurement of SP 500 options implied volatility weighted by maturity (it seeks to measure 30 day implied volatility by rolling the weight through time) by weighting each option in a maturity by its “moneyness”. The VIX futures are market forward estimations of the VIX index. SP 500 daily returns and VIX returns are generally negatively correlated. 

I ran linear regression of the VIX futures and SP 500 futures to see if I could predict the 1 month VIX future daily return. In “predict one” I used only the SP 500 future and the 1 month VIX. In “predict 2” I also included the 2nd and 3rd month VIX futures. I also sought to compare the sci-kit learn algorithm for linear regression with linear algebraic least squares and singular value decomposition methods (svd is not built for prediction but good for general regression, least squares worked well for both). I also included a correlation and co-variance matrix in “SP500_VIX” which is more of an introduction and establishment of the data.

I was able to generate a fairly high predictive model in both data sets using both least squares and sci-kit learn. This is not too surprising as the data is known to be highly negatively correlated and I had 10 years of data to compare. As noted at the end of “predict 2” this model may be deceiving as there is some significant outliers in the error calculations. If this model were to be used in a trading strategy those few errors could overwhelm any of the smaller “edge” that might be generated on most days. Also, this is all based on end of day market close data, so it would not be possible to use a real-world trading strategy to capture the predictions. I hope to continue doing further work on this using intra-day data.
